---
title: "A comparison of small sample methods for handshape recognition"
description: >
  We compare a series of models specially tailored for small datasets to improve their performance on handshape recognition tasks. Our findings indicate that Wide- DenseNet without transfer learning and Prototipical Networks with transfer learning provide the best results.
pubDate: "2023-04-03"
heroImage: "/assets/2023Qui.png"
badge: "Conference paper"
tags: [Sign language, Handshape recognition, DenseNet, Prototypical networks, MAML, Transfer learning, Small datasets]
authors: [Facundo Manuel Quiroga, Franco Ronchetti, Ulises Jeremías Cornejo Fandos, Gastón Gustavo Ríos, Pedro Alejandro Dal Bianco, Waldo Hasperué, Laura Cristina Lanzarini]
---

## Abstract

Automatic Sign Language Translation (SLT) systems can be a great asset to improve the communication with and within deaf communities. Currently, the main issue preventing effective translation models lays in the low availability of labelled data, which hinders the use of modern deep learning models. SLT is a complex problem that involves many subtasks, of which handshape recognition is the most important. We compare a series of models specially tailored for small datasets to improve their performance on handshape recognition tasks. We evaluate Wide-DenseNet and few-shot Prototypical Network models with and without transfer learning, and also using Model-Agnostic Meta- Learning (MAML). Our findings indicate that Wide- DenseNet without transfer learning and Prototipical Networks with transfer learning provide the best results. Prototypical networks, particularly, are vastly superior when using less than 30 samples, while Wide- DenseNet achieves the best results with more samples. On the other hand, MAML does not improve performance in any scenario. These results can help to design better SLT models.

<div class="mt-8">
    <a class="btn" href="https://journal.info.unlp.edu.ar/JCST/article/view/2297" target="_blank"> Full paper</a>
</div>

## Citation

```bibtex
@article{quiroga2023comparison,
  title={A comparison of small sample methods for handshape recognition},
  author={Quiroga, Facundo Manuel and Ronchetti, Franco and Cornejo Fandos, Ulises Jerem{\'\i}as and R{\'\i}os, Gast{\'o}n Gustavo and Dal Bianco, Pedro Alejandro and Hasperu{\'e}, Waldo and Lanzarini, Laura Cristina},
  journal={Journal of Computer Science \& Technology},
  volume={23},
  year={2023}
}
